[Music]
hello I'm Elizabeth panum in Doha with
the top stories on Al jaaz and we begin
with some breaking news out of New York
where police have entered Colombia
University and begun to arrest students
occupying a historic Hall after they
barricaded themselves inside earlier the
university said it's begun suspending
students refusing to meet a deadline to
abandon their encampment let's bring in
our correspondent to a is live for us
outside Columbia University in New York
and today said there was an expectation
earlier that police would come to
Colombia what's happening there
[Music]
now well I'm right in front of Columbia
University right in front of Hamilton
Hall there's dozens and dozens of police
officers that have come here to remove
the students that are currently inside
Hamilton Hall let's not forget what
happened here on Monday evening a group
of students that inside Columbia
University occupied Hamilton Hall they
renamed it as hindra who's a
six-year-old girl who was killed in Gaza
they're there right now if you can see
where I am you can see the police they
came in with a truck now there's a stair
they have broken a window they're going
inside the building probably to detain
the students that are inside this
building there's been lots of tension in
the last hour we've been seeing police
coming from different sides of
the are right now there's dozens of
students who are also here they've been
protesting all day they've been coming
here to support their other students who
are inside of Colombia University the
those inside Columbia University they've
been saying all day that they are under
siege because since very early in the
morning this university has been
completely isolated uh students inside
have been asking for food and water
among other things and the students that
are side have been bringing it in but as
you can see right now the police
officers are moving into the
building one by one it's not clear yet
how they're going to carry out this
operation but we have already seen at
least seven or eight students that were
outside and close to the gate inside
Columbia University being detained and
it's very very likely that something
like this will happen again Columbia
University has been threatening the
students that are
inside for with expulsion that's the we
saying if they did not leave the
building on Monday evening there was
already a deadline that those that
remain inside in the encampment in this
sitting that is happening inside in the
middle of the campus they had given
these students until 2: p.m. local time
on Monday for them to leave and if not
they were going to face suspension so
now they're not only facing suspension
expulsion but also arrest because of the
police officers that were seeing rout
outside where I am right now yeah
incredibly tense scenes there at
Columbia University as as you say TOA we
can see those police officers moving in
forcing themselves in through the window
of Hamilton Hall Tesa do we have an idea
of the number of students who are inside
that
Hall it's not clear how many have
remained in inside we do know we asked
that to one of the students earlier
today and they were not sure because
what happened is that on Monday there
were hundreds of students inside but
those who remained in in in inside
columia Columbia University many of them
left and went to their homes or to their
dorms outside of the main campus we're
let me so it's not clear yet how many
are inside but there are many others who
are outside showing their support for
the University students you can see them
right here where we are right now
they're saying shame on Colombia
University let's not forget what many of
the students have been demanding they
have been demanding Financial
transparency they want Colombia
University to stop using the money the
students pay every year for them to be
able to study here from being invested
in companies that they say are profiting
from those War they're also demanding an
amnesty for many of the students and
faculty members let's not forget about
them many of the faculty inside of
Columbia University have been supporting
and protecting the students so they want
an amnesty uh from uh Colombia
University authorities that they won't
be disciplined as being uh risking
expulsion or suspension uh among other
things so we as the Press we not allowed
to move from where we are we're right
behind a fence we've been uh everyone
that is crossing this fence has being
threatened with arrest if you're on the
streets and that's why we are remaining
here but uh you you can see that there's
hundreds of police officers not only
where I am but completely surrounding
this campus a campus that is between
Broadway Avenue in uh New York City and
Amsterdam Avenue and you can see right
on the window of what is known as
Hamilton Hall that the students have REM
renamed as hint Hall that continue to go
inside this
building probably to remove the students
by
force and uh TOA as you are speaking
there we we have seen live pictures of
police taking away a few people now we
don't know if these people have been
taken from inside Hamilton Hall of they
are indeed part of that group that's
inside the hall uh but certainly police
are once again taking protesters away
and you know when we were speaking a
couple of hours ago todaya we were
talking about how it's not just students
who are protesting at Colombia there has
been a March through New York City a
group of protesters who have been
visiting different University campuses
in New York and came to Colombia to show
their support uh for the protesters
there especially those who've barricaded
themselves inside the
hall well certainly we're we've been
here all day and were a dozens of
protesters peacefully demonstrating
outside of Columbia University on the
gate that you can see right in front of
me they've been here all day showing
their support for the students that
remain inside and while they were
protesting there not even on the streets
but right cloo very very close to the
gate another demonstration passed in
front of us and they were going to other
campuses in New York City uh apparently
they went to City College and they tried
to carry out a protest there they were
not allowed to do that and let's not
forget that earlier today we heard a
press conference from the New York City
Police Department where they were
already warning students and warning the
students parents for example to try to
force their children from where they are
right now because they were facing
arrest the other thing that they were
saying is that the protest inside the
campus had been infiltrated by outside
wrers not just by students and they said
that this is something that increases
the danger or that increased the danger
of this ongoing situation here we cannot
confirm that when you talk to students
they say that they are the only ones
carrying out the actions to shed light
on what is happening in Gaza they want
to shed light to the killing that is
happening in Gaza they want to shed
light to the displacement that is
light on the hunger that is happening in
Gaza so certainly as I said before
there's been protests on the streets
across uh New York City there's been
other campuses where there are other
protests on going for example downtown
downtown of Manhattan uh New York
University there's another group of
students protesting there another went
to a a college that about 2 kilomet from
where we are but the pro biggest protest
happen here mostly because this is the
place that their biggest encampment has
been going on where on April 17th and
18th over a 100 students were detained
and taken from this University that was
severely critic uh criticized of the
actions taken by the president of
Columbia University and because of
calling law enforcement but certainly
it's not clear how this operation is
going on but certainly there's dozens
and dozens of police officers right now
there's other dozens of students who
remain here and there's lots of tension
where we are right now yeah today's an
end since April 17th since those arrests
at Colombia University I believe that
something like at least 900 students
have been arrested at universities
around the United States Colombia is one
if not the first US University which saw
protests against Israel's war on Gaza
and it really has inspired
demonstrations around the country at
universities around the country hasn't
it certainly this is the University that
in way inspired a movement throughout
the country there's a long tradition in
the United States from carrying out what
they call Civil Disobedience protest
Colombia University has been and back in
the 1960s students did exactly the same
thing that happened here on Monday
evening they took over Hamilton Hall to
protest the Vietnam War they were also
arrested and that's what many believe
that is going to happen tonight as the
police is moving in into the building
but what is happening here in Colombia
is what inspired what is happening all
around the country we've seen protest in
California in Texas and so in many many
other places across the country and the
students here say that even though if
they are arrested or if the people
inside are arrested they will continue
with this movement as I said before they
want to make sure that the their voices
are heard but at the same time they're
saying that they're not the story that
the story is in Gaza right now the story
is with the Palestinian people in Gaza
but also in the West Bank they have been
demanding an end to occupation they have
been demanding an end to genocide so
certainly uh as people here are saying
they will remain here it's not clear yet
how long they'll be allowed to remain
here we've already seen at least seven
or eight students that have been
detained they were not inside the
building they were just peaceful
protesters on the streets outside of the
gates they were taken the by the police
just a few minutes ago yeah Teresa we
saw the pictures